Create Style Guide.md (#5)
NASWA-OpenUI/Overview: Open UI Style Guide.md

> # Open UI Initiative - Team Writing, Voice, and Style Guide

Reviewer: This page is ginormous. Should we have a table of contents thing at the top that hyperlinks to the main sections?

Reviewer 2: We have a table of contents in the word doc version we can use, but also open to adding more sections into it

> # Writing about the Open UI Initiative

Reviewer: Stylistically, I think that only the Title is the H1 (#) and then all the other things you have on the page should actually be H2s (##) and below.

Author: Made these updates throughout and tried to section it off appropriately per an earlier comment.

Always leave a space between “Open” and “UI.” 

Refer to Open UI Initiative team as “we,” not “it.” 

Do not abbreviate the Open UI Initiative as OUI. 

> Capitalize specific ‘product’ names but not specific terms. For example: 

Reviewer: The previous lines use " not ' -- we should probably be consistent here! US standard is double quote marks

Reviewer: You'll need to go through the whole doc for consistency here, too.

Reviewer: I'm still seeing some single quotes in the following sections:
- Writing about the Open UI Initiative
- Benefits of the Open UI Initiative
- Tone
- Style tips - be concise and specific]
- Percentages

> - Capitalize ‘Monetary Determination Product Brief” but do not capitalize ‘monetary determination’ or ‘product brief’ when talking about them more generally. 

Reviewer: Can we change this example to be spec instead of product brief

>We published the Monetary Determination Product Brief last week. 
>
>We’re researching monetary determination policies and working on our process for creating product briefs 

> 

Reviewer: The styling of this whole section with the main points being just paragraphs, then an example in bullets and then examples of the example in the quote boxes is a bit weird looking. I'd suggest that the line currently on the bullet just get added to the end of the previous paragraph. I do like the examples in that style though.

## Describing the Open UI Initiative

> *Abridged version*:

Reviewer: It feels a bit weird to have the abridged version above the unabridged? It took me a moment to process what we were trying to say here, why we needed an abridged version

Author: This has been updated.

- The Open UI Initiative is about creating a blueprint, or framework, of a UI system  

- The framework utilizes a modular design, allowing for parts of the system to be changed or updated  

> - Built in collaboration with the UI community of states, vendors, subject matter experts, advocates, and federal partners 

Reviewer: Bullet points should have parallel structure, i.e., the third bullet point needs a subject

Reviewer: @Caroline - Style Guide question to add in!
1) Can we say "the initiative" instead of always saying "Open UI Initiative"
2) If we can, is Initiative capitalized?

*Unabridged version*:

The Open UI Initiative seeks to create a blueprint, or framework, of an unemployment insurance (UI) system, based on the structure of UI systems across the U.S. We are calling this the Open UI Initiative Framework, and states and vendors can use this framework as a guide to develop their own UI software or to modernize existing systems with the flexibility to fit their policies and workflows.  

The framework will follow a modularized approach, or one where the system is sectioned by key functionalities, allowing for the ability to update, change, or replace parts of the system as needed rather than needing to overhaul the entire system all at once. The framework will describe how the modules will communicate with each other or be interoperable, and how they will communicate with other external systems.  

> The Open UI Initiative Framework will be built with the collaboration and input of the UI community of states, vendors, subject matter experts, advocates, and federal partners, and we are committed to maintaining an open and transparent development process, with Initiative materials being kept in an easy to find digital repository. 

Reviewer: Is it the Initiative or the Framework that's being built? I think Framework?

Author: Oh sorry - I went through and edited references to all be within single quotes unless they were directly citing a phrase.

Is the intention for each instance to be in double quotes ("")?

Author: And I also think Framework, but also tagging @cfrazia.

Reviewer 2: Yes, this is referencing the framework

## What the Open UI Initiative is not

At this point in time, we are not creating the actual software that users can interact with. The specifications within the framework (the blueprint) will be used to make these by the states/vendors themselves to fit their own workflows. 

## Why is the Open UI Initiative important?
**Current UI Technology challenges:**

- Limited vendor pool leaves states with few choices around price and design  

- Difficult for new entrants to the market  

- Most vendors own the code for a state's UI system  

- Sporadic, insufficient funding for IT modernization

> **Value of the Open UI Initiative**  

Reviewer: Given that elsewhere we have the "Open UI Initiative Values" do we want to use a diff word than value here?

Reviewer 2: I think having value here is ok, but mostly because I can't think of what would be a better word. Maybe "benefits" potentially? But if we do want to change it that's fine with me!

> - Transparent and easy to find documentation of the Open UI Framework resulting in:  

Reviewer: A bit weird stylistically to have this bullet at the same level as the rest, given that it seems to be introducing the rest. Should this line just be a paragraph ahead of the others as bullet poitns?

- U.S. Department of Labor (USDOL) 

- Employment and Training Administration (ETA) 

- Office of Unemployment Insurance (OUI) 

- American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) 

- Technical Advisory Group (TAG) 

- National Association of State Workforce Agencies (NASWA) 

- UI Information Technology Support Center (UI ITSC) 

These are just a few select terms that commonly come up in NASWA’s writing. 

**Do not abbreviate Open UI Initiative, it is spelled out every time.**

## Capitalization 

Capitalization rules change depending on the format and type of content. Title case capitalizes the first letter of every word in a sentence or phrase except articles, prepositions and conjunctions. Sentence case capitalizes the first letter of the first word in a sentence. Some examples are included below. 
  

Email addresses and websites 

When writing out an email address or website URL, use all lowercase. Watch out for autocorrect! 

- username@naswa.org 

- naswa.org 

## Words within sentences 

Do not capitalize words in the middle of sentences unless they are proper nouns. Here are some words that are never capitalized in a sentence: 

> - unemployment 

Reviewer: I mean, we frequently capitalize this in the context of Unemployment Insurance. Is there more we should add to this to make that clear, or should we just remove this example?

Author: Done!

# Open UI Initiative - Team Writing, Voice, and Style Guide

# Writing about the Open UI Initiative

Always leave a space between “Open” and “UI.” 

Refer to Open UI Initiative team as “we,” not “it.” 

Do not abbreviate the Open UI Initiative as OUI. 

Capitalize specific ‘product’ names but not specific terms. For example: 

> - Capitalize ‘Monetary Determination Product Brief” but do not capitalize ‘monetary determination’ or ‘product brief’ when talking about them more generally. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Capitalize ‘Monetary Determination Product Spec” but do not capitalize ‘monetary determination’ or ‘product spec’ when talking about them more generally.
```

>We published the Monetary Determination Product Brief last week. 
>

> >We’re researching monetary determination policies and working on our process for creating product briefs 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>We published the Monetary Determination Product Spec last week. 
>
>We’re researching monetary determination policies and working on our process for creating product specs
```

We still have brief in the original document this text came from and haven't updated it to all say spec yet, so I'll need to go in and change that in the word doc version of this as well
